as one of the most unique games series
to ever grace the PSP Patapon combines
precise rhythm and strategy based gaming
for an experience unlike anything else
if you've never played or heard of
Patapon before this blend of genres
might sound odd but give it a try and
you'll be bobbing your head before you
know it
Patapon three looks to build upon its
predecessors with another great march of
the truck is this a worthy iteration or
does it just miss the beat I'm Taylor
Hoyt lead PSP review editor from
blistered thumbs dotnet let's dig in and
find out the story picks up from where
Patapon 2 ended the tribe has been
turned to stone by the magic box
however the Silver Star revives you and
your choose back to your normal cells so
you can protect the rest of the tribe
instead of being an overseeing guide you
now join it as part of the squad as an
uber hero you'll lead your troops
through various battles against monsters
and the nefarious Archer needs these
fiends are out to get you and your tribe
it all cost some what you did while all
is seemingly just want a day with you
story isn't too important when it's just
enough to keep the game moving along in
a nice pace there's some winnie rani
you'll no doubt get a chuckle or two
here there
overall it's enjoyable but nothing too
special Patapon threes graphics have
essentially stayed the same why fix what
isn't broken right game has a very
unique art style and I personally found
it very appealing the characters and
backgrounds don't have a lot of detail
in fact I'd say the art style is
something you might find out of an indie
game it does however have a certain
charm to it and gives a game plenty of
character the animation is smooth and
looks great because the graphics are so
simple you are going to see framerate
drops screen tearing or anything like
that depending on what you're fighting
or what mission you're on there can be a
ton of crap on the screen at once arrows
flying bushes burning people freezing it
works well and just adds to the
craziness of the game the beat box
around the screen also adds a lot to the
game
as you combo your beat the box will go
from grey to rainbow and their combo
goes up the music will intensify adding
more intricacies to the beat when you're
at full fever taking on a massive guys
it's simply beautiful madness the music
is an essential and fantastic part of
the game the beats vary from tribal to
simian hiphop Teva a little bit of rock
it's pretty hard not to Bob your head to
the beat as the songs intensify
it's what makes the game so addictive I
found the music quite enjoyable and
fitting overall as previously mentioned
Patapon 3 is a rhythm slash strategy
game you command your troops to attack
defend or do other various actions and
use in with the beat as your combo
increases solo you're damaging keeping
the beat going as long as possible as
essential to dishing out heavy damage
some enemies require you to jump or
defend more often depending on the level
when certain fights get pretty intense
you'll end up rushing commands and just
getting offbeat
I found this particularly frustrating
ultimately ended up in meat dying more
times than not trying to get your beat
back up to speed isn't easy either when
you're not fighting the music you can
customise and upgrade your troops at
your hideout you can upgrade your gear
at the blacksmith disassemble gear at
the armory as well as customizing your
troops abilities and classes of barracks
as you level up you learn different
classes with different abilities you'll
always have four different attacking
troops and one flagbearer when you're in
battle you have a close-range melee
class a mid-range class and a long-range
class you'll also have your over here
that can be any of the three there are
plenty of options for each so outfitting
your troops the way that fits your
fighting style is important
experimentation is always encouraged as
you never know what other classes might
do the battles also vary as you're not
always scrolling right there's a king of
the hill type mode a race to the end and
even a mode where you launch missiles at
each other these different kinds of
levels are nice change of pace and it
really helps keep things fresh some
levels can be a bit frustrating but once
you figure it out it can be pretty fun
game unfortunately doesn't have a real
tutorial mode and learning curve is
fairly steep there are some learning
stages but these never really make you
feel super comfortable it took me quite
a few hours a use of the game and I
still got stuck on certain
feels like some bosses are way
overpowered what as to the frustration
is when you keep dying on a boss on the
top or bottom floor of a dungeon nothing
is worse than having to fight the two
floors of enemies over and over again
veterans might not have any problems but
newcomers beware this game will take
some getting used to
there is a true online multiplayer
component however during my time playing
through this for review the PlayStation
Network was down and I couldn't play if
anyone no one I knew had it so I could
have played via ad hoc either
I'm sure it's fun I just simply can't
comment over all Patapon 3 is a really
enjoyable game if you can get past
learning curve once if you get a game
out though it's so much fun I can't
believe it took me this long to play for
you my first Patapon game now I want to
play them all I'm not sure this is the
best game in the series to start off
with but it's still worth checking out
the amount of content you're going to
find in here for only $20 - totally
worth it my final verdict is going to be
a 7 out of 10
try it out this game is very unique it
isn't going to peel it everyone if this
game seems a little bit intimidating to
you at least give it a try before you
say no I personally enjoyed the hell out
of it and even convinced a buddy of mine
to try it out there are however some
balancing issues and frustration at
certain points that prevent this game
from being truly epic with such a neat
gameplay you'd think there would be a
much more extensive tutorial system
there are some starter missions like I
said but nothing that really makes you
feel super comfortable with the gameplay
you're going to have a lot of learning
on the fly check out my full write-up it
blistered thumbs net feel free to leave
a comment about the game and this review
I'd love to hear what you think be sure
to subscribe to the BT youtube channel
as well for more great content and keep
checking out blister thumbs net for the
latest news reviews and content your
favorite video personalities until next
time this has been Taylor Hawaii signing